README.md, before:

# Selenium Standalone for Home Assistant

A Home Assistant add-on that provides Selenium Standalone with Chromium as a shared service for other add-ons and integrations.

## About

This add-on runs Selenium Standalone with Chromium in a Docker container, making it available to other Home Assistant add-ons and integrations that need browser automation capabilities. It's optimized for low resource usage, making it suitable for mini PCs and other resource-constrained environments.

## Use Cases

- UK Bin Collection Data add-on integration
- Web scraping integrations
- Browser automation tasks
- Testing web interfaces

## Installation

### Step 1: Add the Repository

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Add-ons** → **Add-on Store** in your Home Assistant interface
2. Click the **⋮** menu (three dots) in the top right corner
3. Select **Repositories**
4. Add this repository URL: `https://github.com/davida72/selenium-homeassistant`
5. Click **Add**

### Step 2: Install the Add-on

1. Find "Selenium Standalone" in the add-on store
2. Click on it and press **Install**
3. Wait for the installation to complete

### Step 3: Start the Add-on

1. After installation, go to the **Info** tab
2. Click **Start**
3. Enable **Start on boot** if you want it to start automatically
4. Enable **Watchdog** to automatically restart if it crashes

## Usage

After starting the add-on, check the **Log** tab to see your Selenium URL. It will look like:

```
SELENIUM WEBDRIVER URL:
  http://192.168.1.100:4444/
  http://homeassistant.local:4444/
```

Use this URL in your scripts and other add-ons.

### Example: UK Bin Collection Data Add-on

When configuring the UK Bin Collection Data add-on, use the URL from your logs:
- **Selenium URL**: `http://192.168.1.100:4444/` (or `http://homeassistant.local:4444/`)

### Viewing Browser Sessions

The add-on includes NoVNC for watching browser sessions in real-time. Check your logs for the NoVNC URL:

```
SESSION VIEWING (NoVNC):
  http://192.168.1.100:7900/
  http://homeassistant.local:7900/
```

Open this URL in your browser to watch Selenium sessions live.

## Configuration

### VNC Password Required

**Default: OFF (no password required)**

Controls whether a password is needed to view browser sessions:

- **OFF (Default)**: No password - access NoVNC immediately
- **ON**: Password required (default password is `secret`)

**Note**: Restart the add-on after changing this setting.

## Resource Optimization

This add-on is optimized for low resource usage with the following settings:

- **Max Sessions**: 3 concurrent sessions
- **Session Timeout**: 300 seconds (5 minutes)
- **Java Memory**: 256MB min, 512MB max
- **VNC Disabled**: No VNC server running to save resources
- **Log Level**: WARNING (reduced logging overhead)

## Technical Details

- **Base Image**: selenium/standalone-chromium:latest
- **Port**: 4444 (WebDriver API)
- **Architecture Support**: amd64, aarch64, armv7
- **Startup**: Automatically starts with Home Assistant services

## Support

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check the add-on logs in the **Log** tab
2. Ensure port 4444 is not being used by another service
3. Verify your system has sufficient resources (at least 512MB free RAM)
4. Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/davida72/selenium-homeassistant/issues)

## Credits

- Based on [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/) by the Selenium Project
- Docker images by [SeleniumHQ](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/docker-selenium)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

Commit message:

v1.1.1: Prioritize localhost and improve UX
Major improvements:
- Make localhost:4444 the primary recommended URL for HA add-ons
- Display URLs in prominent boxed format in logs
- Change config label to 'Use password to view Selenium sessions'
- Add Selenium logo to README and DOCS for visual appeal
- Clarify internal vs external access in all documentation
- Update all code examples to show localhost as primary

This makes it much clearer how to use the add-on!

README.md, after:

# Selenium Standalone for Home Assistant

![Selenium Logo](logo.svg)

A Home Assistant add-on that provides Selenium Standalone with Chromium as a shared service for other add-ons and integrations.

## About

This add-on runs Selenium Standalone with Chromium in a Docker container, making it available to other Home Assistant add-ons and integrations that need browser automation capabilities. It's optimized for low resource usage, making it suitable for mini PCs and other resource-constrained environments.

## Use Cases

- UK Bin Collection Data add-on integration
- Web scraping integrations
- Browser automation tasks
- Testing web interfaces

## Installation

### Step 1: Add the Repository

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Add-ons** → **Add-on Store** in your Home Assistant interface
2. Click the **⋮** menu (three dots) in the top right corner
3. Select **Repositories**
4. Add this repository URL: `https://github.com/davida72/selenium-homeassistant`
5. Click **Add**

### Step 2: Install the Add-on

1. Find "Selenium Standalone" in the add-on store
2. Click on it and press **Install**
3. Wait for the installation to complete

### Step 3: Start the Add-on

1. After installation, go to the **Info** tab
2. Click **Start**
3. Enable **Start on boot** if you want it to start automatically
4. Enable **Watchdog** to automatically restart if it crashes

## Usage

After starting the add-on, check the **Log** tab to see your Selenium URL prominently displayed:

```
**********************************************
* Selenium URL: http://localhost:4444/       *
*           or: http://192.168.200.234:4444/ *
**********************************************
```

### For Home Assistant Add-ons
Use: **`http://localhost:4444/`**

This works for UK Bin Collection Data, AppDaemon, and any other Home Assistant add-on.

### For External Scripts
Use the IP address shown in your logs (e.g., `http://192.168.200.234:4444/`)

### Example: UK Bin Collection Data Add-on

When configuring the UK Bin Collection Data add-on:
- **Selenium URL**: `http://localhost:4444/`

### Viewing Browser Sessions

The add-on includes NoVNC for watching browser sessions in real-time:
- **From within Home Assistant**: `http://localhost:7900/`
- **From your network**: Check logs for IP address (e.g., `http://192.168.200.234:7900/`)

Open the NoVNC URL in your browser to watch Selenium sessions live.

## Configuration

### VNC Password Required

**Default: OFF (no password required)**

Controls whether a password is needed to view browser sessions:

- **OFF (Default)**: No password - access NoVNC immediately
- **ON**: Password required (default password is `secret`)

**Note**: Restart the add-on after changing this setting.

## Resource Optimization

This add-on is optimized for low resource usage with the following settings:

- **Max Sessions**: 3 concurrent sessions
- **Session Timeout**: 300 seconds (5 minutes)
- **Java Memory**: 256MB min, 512MB max
- **VNC Disabled**: No VNC server running to save resources
- **Log Level**: WARNING (reduced logging overhead)

## Technical Details

- **Base Image**: selenium/standalone-chromium:latest
- **Port**: 4444 (WebDriver API)
- **Architecture Support**: amd64, aarch64, armv7
- **Startup**: Automatically starts with Home Assistant services

## Support

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check the add-on logs in the **Log** tab
2. Ensure port 4444 is not being used by another service
3. Verify your system has sufficient resources (at least 512MB free RAM)
4. Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/davida72/selenium-homeassistant/issues)

## Credits

- Based on [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/) by the Selenium Project
- Docker images by [SeleniumHQ](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/docker-selenium)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details
